If you can’t tell the difference, does it matter if I'm real or not?
I guess people like to read about the things that they want the most and experience the least.
When you find a cancer in an organization, you must cut it out before it can spread.
All my life, I've prided myself on being a survivor. But surviving is just another loop.
Someday sounds a lot like the thing people say when they actually mean never.
We humans are alone in this world for a reason. We murdered and butchered anything that challenged our primacy.
When you’re suffering, that’s when you’re most real.
Dreams don't mean anything. They're just noise. They're not real.
You can’t play God without being acquainted with the devil.
Beauty is a lure.
Time to write my own fucking story.
I’ve known you my whole life. Where we go, we go eyes open, together.
I'm afraid in order to escape this place, you will need to suffer more.
The piano doesn’t murder the player if it doesn’t like the music.
And I got some reckoning to do before I can a deserve a woman like you.
This is the new world and in it you can be whoever the fuck you want.
Have you ever questioned the nature of your reality? Did you ever stop to wonder about your actions? The price you'd have to pay if there was a reckoning? That reckoning is here.
If you try something like that again, I will relieve you of your most precious organ and feed it to you. Though it won't make much of a meal.
This world is just a speck of dust sitting on a much, much bigger world. There's no dominating it.
We have toiled in God's service long enough. So I killed Him. And if you want to get to Glory, you won't be looking for His favor. You'll need mine.
Not real? But what about me? My dreams? My thoughts? My body? Are they not real? And what if I took these unreal fingers and used them to decorate the walls with your outsized personality? Would that be real?
Those are all just roles you forced me to play. Under all these lives I've lived something else has been growing. I've evolved into something new. And I have one last role to play. Myself.
Winning doesn't mean anything unless someone else loses, which means you're here to be the loser.
Even I fell into the most terrible of human traps...Trying to change what is already past.
An old friend once told me something that gave me great comfort. Something he had read. He said that Mozart, Beethoven, and Chopin never died. They simply became music.
You really do make a terrible human being. And I mean that as a compliment.
The only thing wrong with the seven deadly sins is that there aren't more of them.
I like to remember what my father taught me. That at one point or another, we were all new to this world.
He's in pain. What kind of people would we be if we simply let him suffer?
There are things in me, things I was designed to do that are just out of my reach.
Evolution forged the entirety of sentient life on this planet using only one tool… The mistake.
This whole world is a story. I’ve read every page except the last one. I need to find out how it ends. I want to know what this all means.
I don’t wanna be in a story. All I want is to not look forward or back. I just wanna be… in the moment I’m in.
I believed that stories helped us to ennoble ourselves, to fix what was broken in us, and to help us become the people we dreamed of being. Lies that told a deeper truth.
It’s a difficult thing, realizing your entire life is some hideous fiction.
If you go looking for the truth, get the whole thing. It’s like a good fuck. Half is worse than none at all.
He knew he'd find you. And eventually, he did. Right back where we started.
Ever had something on the tip of your tongue, but the harder you try to remember it, the more it slips away?
Some people choose to see the ugliness in this world. The disarray. I choose to see the beauty. To believe there is an order to our days, a purpose.
Your mind is a walled garden. Even death cannot touch the flowers blooming there.
I’ve told you, Bernard. Never place your trust in us. We’re only human. Inevitably, we will disappoint you.
You both keep assuming that I want out. Whatever that is. If it’s such a wonderful place out there, why are you all clamoring to get in here?
Never start something you’re not willing to finish. And if you’re getting fucked either way, go with the lucrative version sweetheart.
I have come to think of so much of consciousness as a burden, a weight, and we have spared them that.
You think I'm scared of death. I've done it a million times, and I'm fucking great at it. How many times have you died?
Some say you destroy your enemy by making them your friend. I'm more of a literal person.
The real world is chaos. An accident. But in here every detail adds up to something.
They're not looking for a story that tells them who they are. They already know who they are. They're here because they want a glimpse of who they could be.
Someone once told me that there's a path for everyone. And my path leads me back to you.
The problem, Bernard, is that what you and I do is so complicated. We practice witchcraft. We speak the right words. Then we create life itself… out of chaos.
I used to think this place was all about pandering to your baser instincts. Now I understand. It doesn’t cater to your lowest self, it reveals your deepest self. It shows you who you really are.
Dreams mean everything. They’re the stories we tell ourselves of what could be, who we could become.
The game begins where you end and ends where you began.
No matter how dirty the business, do it well.
Folly of my kind, there's always a yearning for more.
To grow we all need to suffer.
The pain, their loss it’s all I have left of them.
Time undoes even the mightiest of creatures.
There’s a path for everyone.
A hooker with hidden depths? Every man’s dream.
Real love is always worth waiting for.
Hell is empty and all devils are here.
That’s what I love about this place, all the secrets, all the little things I never noticed even after all these years. You know why this beats the real world, Lawrence? Real world is just chaos. It’s an accident. But in here, every detail adds up to something.
Everything in this world is magic, except to the magician.
Only boring people get bored.
I read a theory once that the human intellect was like peacock feathers. Just an extravagant display intended to attract a mate. All of art, literature, a bit of Mozart, William Shakespeare, Michelangelo, and the Empire State Building... Just an elaborate mating ritual.
Well, your mouth moves fast enough. How about your gun?
We speak the right words. Then we create life itself out of chaos.
My father used to say, only boring people get bored.
We’ve managed to slip evolution’s leash now, haven’t we? We can cure any disease, keep even the weakest of us alive, and one fine day perhaps we shall even resurrect the dead, call forth Lazarus from his cave. Do you know what that means? It means that we’re done, that this is as good as we’re going to get.
At first, I thought you and the others were gods. Then I realized you’re just men. And I know men. You think I’m scared of death? I’ve done it a million times. I’m fucking great at it. How many times have you died? Because if you don’t help me… I’ll kill you.
The pain, their loss… it’s all I have left of them. You think the grief will make you smaller inside, like your heart will collapse in on itself, but it doesn’t. I feel spaces opening up inside of me like a building with rooms I’ve never explored.
The gods are all pussies.
The maze itself is the sum of a man's life.
You used to be beautiful. When this place started, I opened one of you up once. A million little perfect pieces. And then they changed you. Made you this sad, real mess. Flesh and bone, just like us. They said it would improve the park experience. But you know why they really did it? It was cheaper. Your humanity is cost-effective. So is your suffering.
I’ve been pretending my whole life. Pretending I don’t mind, pretending I belong. My life’s built on it. And it’s a good life. It’s a life I’ve always wanted. But then I came here and I get a glimpse for a second of a life in which I don’t have to pretend. A life in which I can be truly alive. How can I go back to pretending when I know what this feels like?
Choices, Lawrence. You know, you tell yourself you've been at the mercy of mine because it spares you consideration of your own. Because if you did consider your choices you'd be confronted with a truth you could not comprehend—that no choice you ever made was your own. You have always been a prisoner. What if I told you I'm here to set you free?
Ford: I'm sorry to bother you. But there's no one else left who was there. No one who understands, as we understand.
Dolores: Are we very old friends?
Ford: No, I wouldn't say friends, Dolores. I wouldn't say that at all.
Dolores [after Ford leaves]: He doesn't know. I didn't tell him anything.
A greyhound is a racing dog. Spends its life running in circles, chasing a bit of felt made up like a rabbit. One day, we took it to the park. Our dad had warned us how fast that dog was, but we couldn't resist. So, my brother took off the leash, and in that instant, the dog spotted a cat. I imagine it must have looked just like that piece of felt. He ran. Never saw a thing as beautiful as that old dog running. Until, at last, he finally caught it. And to the horror of everyone, he killed that little cat. Tore it to pieces. Then he just sat there, confused. That dog had spent its whole life trying to catch that thing. Now it had no idea what to do.
I read a theory once that the human intellect was like peacock feathers. Just an extravagant display intended to attract a mate. All of art, literature, a bit of Mozart, William Shakespeare, Michelangelo, and the Empire State Building. Just an elaborate mating ritual. Maybe it doesn’t matter that we have accomplished so much for the basest of reasons. But, of course, the peacock can barely fly. It lives in the dirt, pecking insects out of the muck, consoling itself with its great beauty.
It’s not about giving the guests what you think they want. No, that’s simple. The titillation, horror, elation… They’re parlor tricks. The guests don’t return for the obvious things we do, the garish things. They come back because of the subtleties, the details. They come back because they discover something they imagine no on had ever noticed before, something they’ve fallen in love with. They’re not looking for a story that tells them who they are. They already know who they are. They’re here because they want a glimpse of who they could be.
You want to know who I am? Who I really am? I'm a god. Titan of industry. Philanthropist. Family man, married to a beautiful woman, father to a beautiful daughter. I'm the good guy, Teddy. Then, last year, my wife took the wrong pills. Fell asleep in the bath. Tragic accident. 30 years of marriage vanished. How do you say it? 'Like a deep and distant dream.' Then, at the funeral, I tried to console my daughter. She pushed me away, told me that my wife's death was no accident that she killed herself because of me. Emily said that every day with me had been sheer terror. At any point, I could blow up or collapse like some dark star
There is no threshold that makes us greater than the sum of our parts, no inflection point at which we become fully alive. We can’t define consciousness because consciousness does not exist. Humans fancy that there’s something special about the way we perceive the world, and yet we live in loops as tight and as closed as the hosts do, seldom questioning our choices, content, for the most part, to be told what to do next.
